---
hide:
  - navigation
  - toc

og_image: https://wiki.beyondatc.net/assets/cards/card-msfs2024.png
og_description: All information, known issues and guide to get started with MSFS2024 and BeyondATC
description: All information, known issues and guide to get started with MSFS2024 and BeyondATC

---

# Getting started with Microsoft Flight Simulator 2024 and BeyondATC  

Microsoft Flight Simulator 2024 is here, and we know many of you are excited to experience BeyondATC in this brand-new simulator! We’re happy to confirm that **BeyondATC is fully compatible with MSFS 2024**. This guide will walk you through the current limitations and how to configure your simulator for the best experience with BeyondATC.  

## Known issues  

Before diving in, **please review the following known limitations when using BeyondATC with MSFS 2024**:  

- **Traffic model issues**:  
    - **FSLTL and AIG Models**: The current MSFS 2024 build has known issues with animations and lights for FSLTL and AIG traffic models. Both teams are actively working on fixes.  
    - **FSLTL tyres sound**: In external views, FSLTL models may produce a tyre sound, as if aircraft are continuously landing. This issue is being investigated.  

- **SimConnect Connection**: If you navigate to the MSFS menus while using BeyondATC, it will lose connection. This is due to changes in how SimConnect is handled in MSFS 2024. (This is currently fixed in the experimental branch)

- **Included traffic models**:  
    - The new traffic models included with MSFS 2024 currently do not support external injection outside of the simulator’s default traffic engine. We are investigating this further, but as of now, they may not be usable by third-party applications. Updates will follow as we learn more.  

## Setting up MSFS2024  

### Disable AI Traffic  

To ensure compatibility with BeyondATC, disable AI traffic as follows:  

1. **Settings > General > Graphics**  
    - Traffic Airport Quality: **OFF**  
    - Air Traffic: **OFF**  

2. **Settings > General > Online**  
    - Aircraft Traffic Type: **OFF**  
    - Multiplayer: **OFF**  

3. **Settings > VR > VR Graphics**  
    - Traffic Airport Quality: **OFF**  
    - Air Traffic: **OFF**  

**If AI aircraft are still visible around the airport**:  

- Return to the main menu and start a new flight.  
- Revisit each setting, scroll through to **OFF**, and save changes after resetting them.  

### Disable Default ATC  

Follow these steps to disable the default ATC:  

1. **Settings > Accessibility**  
    - Turn Subtitles: **OFF**  

2. **Settings > Assistance** (under Realism)  
    - AI Radio Communications (ATC): **OFF**  
    - ATC Enforce Flight Plan: **OFF**  

3. **Settings > General > Sound**  
    - Set Character Voice to **0**  

### Traffic Models  

BeyondATC requires third-party traffic models to function. These models must be installed in the simulator’s community folder. Make sure they are correctly placed in the new MSFS2024 directory.  

Here’s the default location of the community folder for MSFS2024:  

- **Steam version**:  
  `C:\Users\[Your Username]\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft Flight Simulator 2024\Packages\Community`  

- **Microsoft Store version**:  
  `C:\Users\[Your Username]\AppData\Local\Packages\Microsoft.Limitless_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache\Packages\Community`  

!!! info "Using MSFS Addons Linker"  
    To avoid managing two separate addon locations and duplicating files, use **MSFS Addons Linker**, which now supports MSFS2024. This tool lets you store all your addons in one folder, no matter which simulator you launch. You can download it here: [MSFS Addons Linker](https://flightsim.to/file/1572/msfs-addons-linker).  

## FAQ  

**Q: Do I need to download a specific version of BeyondATC to make it work with MSFS 2024?**

No, you can use the same BeyondATC app as you have used it in the past.

**Q: Do I need to pay anything to have MSFS 2024 compatibility?**

No, MSFS 2024 compatibility has always been planned to be included in your purchase. It is then free of charge for both the early access and experimental build.

**Q: I can't see any traffic in MSFS 2024**

It is very likely that you do not have any models in the new community folder for MSFS 2024. Please check the 2024 community folder and make sure models are installed there. If yes, try to run BeyondATC as an administrator.

**Q: Can BeyondATC use the new traffic models that come with MSFS 2024?**

The new traffic models included with MSFS 2024 currently do not support external injection outside of the simulator’s default traffic engine. We are investigating this further, but as of now, they may not be usable by third-party applications. Updates will follow as we learn more.

**Q: Can BeyondATC use the new inbuilt flight planner available in MSFS 2024?**

No, BeyondATC cannot currently use the new inbuilt flight planner in MSFS 2024 because the necessary data is not accessible through an API.

**Q: Can I use it with the new Career mode instead of the default ATC?**

If you want to have all the points in your mission, it will require to follow and interact with the default ATC. It is still unclear if MSFS will allow third party developers to integrate their own solution into career mode, especially for ATC.

**Q: All frequencies disappeared! What can I do?**

If you have copied the entire 2020 community folder into 2024, you have probably installed the navigation data from Navigraph, which is not supported. **Please, keep in mind that you should not copy every single addon into 2024 community folder without checking its compatibility before.**

